- [Instructor] Now we are supposed to return a Callable
of String from Controllers instead of a normal String value.
We've already spoken of this before in our slides videos
where we said that instead of returning a String,
if you want Async processing capability
you need to return a Callable of String,
or a DeferredReult of String.
So that's the next change we're going to do.
Let's com back to IDE.
Let's pick up one of our Controllers,
let's say I'm going to take the SearchController,
and this is what we're going to modify.
So now on line 22,
if you look at the Controller method search,
it returns you a String right now.
Instead of this I'm going to return a Callable of String.
So let's do that, which is going to look like this.
Okay, once that's done, of course,
now it is returning a Callable of String
which means you need a Callable implementation
out there inside that method.
But before we do that
we are just going to quickly put a couple of sys out.
One is to ensure that the Async supported flag
is definitely set to true for this application.
We have to confirm that.
Now how will we do that?
For that on line number 23,
as a part of the method signature,
let's first grab the request object, the HttpServletRequest.
And on line 27, I'm just going to say
request.isAsyncSupported,
so that's the flag that has already been
set to true for us in Spring Boot.
And we're just checking
if that flag is definitely set to true or not.
We're just confirming that.
The other thing that we want to do is,
we want to make sure that we have thread
from the servlet container,
the name of that thread, getting printed here.
So how do you get hold of the current thread in Java?
You can just call the thread class's currentThread API
and on that chain, getName API.
So we basically need to understand
what was the name of the thread
that was allocated to request processing?
Because we've already understood the concept behind it.
We said that as a part of the asynchronous processing
there are two threads created,
one is for the request processing.
The other is for the blocking calls.
So this one is going to print the name, line number 28,
for the request processing thread.
After that let's go ahead,
and now define a Callable of String return type.
So we're going to do that by a lambda expression.
So I'll just say return, say this,
and then just go ahead
and put all of this inside that method.
So now it's going to make sure
that there is a Callable implementation.
That Callable implementation is basically trying
to fetch the products from the database,
and adding it to model.
A few other things that we need to do here are,
on line 31, first of all,
I am going to print the name of this thread now.
So I'm going to copy line 28, come to line 31,
and this thread will be from the spring mvc task executor.
So whatever you define under the Callable implementation,
those steps are going to be executed by a thread
which is spawned from the spring mvc task executor,
that is what it is.
So whenever this entire blocking call is completed,
we just are going to return to search and we are done.
Additionally I will also put a delay here,
let's say we make the entire processing sleep
for about three seconds.
Let's make sure that this happens.
This is just to simulate that delay of a blocking call.
You know when you call a database server
or you call a REST API
there will definitely be certain time that will go by.
So this line number 31 that I have called
is only to simulate that delay, nothing else.
Okay, so I think we are set, let's go ahead and build this,
and observe what happens.
Let me do one small modification here,
let me just stop the build,
and we just label this sys out correctly.
Instead of just printing the flag,
let's say Async supported in application,
and then let's print that flag.
Okay, this is good, now run the build.
So I'm going to double-click spring-boot.run.
So the application build has gone well.
So how will we check this now?
So when I go to my search page
I'll enter some search criteria, yes,
and then these few statements will be executed.
And then there'll be a delay of three seconds
before we finally get the result
from this set of operations.
All right, so let's go to the browser, and check it out.
So I'm just going to invoke /home first,
go to search, enter some criteria, let's say water.
Now observe carefully,
I'm clicking on Search, one, two, three.
So three seconds, and then I got my data displayed.
So this is just simulating that delay in the blocking code.
Let's go back to the IDE
and see what all we got as a part of a sys out.
So search criteria was okay, yes, that was water.
Async supported in application, that is true.
Thread from the servlet container was of this name.
And thread from spring mvc task executor
was hplusapp-thread-1.
So this is working exactly as we expected it to.
The request processing thread was allocated
from the context of the container and that has this name.
When it entered our Callable implementation
this entire processing logic
then was handed over to a thread spawned
by the spring mvc task executor.
And that is this thread.
So that's all, this is how you inject the capability
of Async processing using Callable as the return type
for your Controller methods.